feat: add ES2018 migration blog post (#147)
bpmn-io/bpmn.io: src/blog/2022/009-es2018.md

</p>

<!-- continue -->

The releases introduce modern language constructs to the codebase, i.e. async/await, ES6-style classes, as well as rest/spread operator. We believe this will allow reduce the burden on contributors who won't need to limit to ES5 syntax anymore.

## Migration

If your application does not target unsupported browsers (mainly Internet Explorer 11), you don't need to do anything to prepare for the new versions. Also, if you already transpile your code, no additional steps should be required.

Otherwise, you need to setup a transpilation step in your bundler pipeline. A common way to do this is to use [Babel](https://babeljs.io/), for example via [a Babel plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rollup/plugin-babel) in your [rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) configuration:

```javascript
// rollup.config.js
import resolve from '@rollup/plugin-node-resolve';
import babel from '@rollup/plugin-babel';

export default {
  input: 'src/main.js',
  output: {
    file: 'bundle.js',
    format: 'cjs'
  },
  plugins: [resolve(), babel({ babelHelpers: 'bundled' })]
};

> ```

Author: Hmm I could extend the bundling example

> ```

Author: I've added a link to the example PR for webpack config.

---

> title: Core Libraries Migrated To ES2018

Reviewer: I'd simplify this to `Migration to ES2018`. Not sure if it is clear what the "core libraries" are.

description: "Introducing bpmn-js@10, diagram-js@9, and dmn-js@13: The releases include migration of the core libraries to the modern syntax of ES2018."
layout: blogpost.hbs
slug: 2022-core-libraries-migrated-to-es2018
author:
- Maciej Barelkowski <https://github.com/barmac>
published: 2022-09-14 12:00

releases:
  - 'bpmn-js@10.0.0'
  - 'diagram-js@9.0.0'
  - 'dmn-js@13.0.0'

---

<p class="introduction">
  We are happy to announce the latest releases of our modeling toolkit which ship with modern JavaScript syntax, namely ES2018.
</p>

<!-- continue -->

> The releases introduce modern language constructs to the codebase, i.e. async/await, ES6-style classes, as well as rest/spread operator. We believe this will allow reduce the burden on contributors who won't need to limit to ES5 syntax anymore.

Reviewer: I'd want us to clarify here that the _bundled_ output will contain ES2018 features. You could also say that the target runtime of our libraries is now ES2018 (which is every modern browser).

The main benefit for the user is smaller bundles (we don't shim/transpile back to ES5), while the main benefit on our end is maintainability and the ability to use these new language features freely.

Author: Please check now.

## Migration

> If your application does not target unsupported browsers (mainly Internet Explorer 11), you don't need to do anything to prepare for the new versions. Also, if you already transpile your code, no additional steps should be required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you need to support ancient browsers such as Internet Explorer 11, you don't need to do anything to prepare for the new versions. Also, if you already transpile your code using tools such as [Babel](https://babeljs.io/), no additional steps are required.
```

Otherwise, you need to setup a transpilation step in your bundler pipeline. A common way to do this is to use [Babel](https://babeljs.io/), for example via [a Babel plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rollup/plugin-babel) in your [rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) configuration:

```javascript
// rollup.config.js
import resolve from '@rollup/plugin-node-resolve';
import babel from '@rollup/plugin-babel';

export default {
  input: 'src/main.js',
  output: {
    file: 'bundle.js',
    format: 'cjs'
  },
  plugins: [resolve(), babel({ babelHelpers: 'bundled' })]
};
```

Cf. [rollup guide](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#babel).

If your bundler of choice is [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), check out [the bundling example](https://github.com/bpmn-io/bpmn-js-examples/pull/184).

## Wrapping up

Did we miss anything? Did you spot a bug, or would you like to suggest an improvement?

> Reach out to us via [our forums](https://forum.bpmn.io/), tweet us [@bpmn_io](https://twitter.com/bpmn_io) or file an issue you found in the respective issue tracker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reach out to us via [our forums](https://forum.bpmn.io/), tweet us [@bpmn_io](https://twitter.com/bpmn_io) or file an issue you found in the respective issue trackers for [bpmn-js](...), [dmn-js](...), or [diagram-js](...).
```
